# Securing A Validator

Each validator candidate is encouraged to run its operations independently, as diverse setups increase the resilience of the network. Validator candidates should commence their setup phase now in order to be on time for launch.

### Key Management - HSM

It is mission critical that an attacker cannot steal a validator's key. If this is possible, it puts the entire stake delegated to the compromised validator at risk. Hardware security modules are an important strategy for mitigating this risk.

HSM modules must support `ed25519` signatures for the hub. The YubiHSM2 supports `ed25519` and [this yubikey library is available](https://github.com/iqlusioninc/yubihsm.rs). The YubiHSM can protect a private key but cannot ensure in a secure setting that it won't sign the same block twice.

The Tendermint team is also working on extending our Ledger Nano S application to support validator signing. This app can store recent blocks and mitigate double signing attacks.

We will update this page when more key storage solutions become available.

### Types of Keys&#x20;

There are two types of keys:

* **Tendermint key**: A unique key that is used to sign consensus votes.
  * It is associated with a public key `mpvalconspub` (To get this value, run `crossfid tendermint show-validator`)
  * It is generated when the node is created with `crossfid init`.
* **Application key**: This key is created from the `crossfid` binary and is used to sign transactions. Application keys are associated with a public key that is prefixed by `cosmospub` and an address that is prefixed by `cosmos`.

The Tendermint key and the application key are derived from account keys that are generated by the `crossfid keys add` command.

**Note:** A validator's operator key is directly tied to an application key and uses the `mpvaloper` and `mpvaloperpub` prefixes that are reserved solely for this purpose.

### Sentry Nodes (DDOS Protection)

Validators are responsible for ensuring that the network can sustain denial of service attacks.

One recommended way to mitigate these risks is for validators to carefully structure their network topology in a so-called sentry node architecture.

Validator nodes should only connect to full-nodes they trust because they operate them themselves or are run by other validators they know socially. A validator node will typically run in a data center. Most data centers provide direct links the networks of major cloud providers. The validator can use those links to connect to sentry nodes in the cloud. This shifts the burden of denial-of-service from the validator's node directly to its sentry nodes, and may require new sentry nodes be spun up or activated to mitigate attacks on existing ones.

Sentry nodes can be quickly spun up or change their IP addresses. Because the links to the sentry nodes are in private IP space, an internet based attacked cannot disturb them directly. This will ensure validator block proposals and votes always make it to the rest of the network.

To setup your sentry node architecture you can follow the instructions below:

Validators nodes should edit their config.toml:

```bash
# Comma separated list of nodes to keep persistent connections to
# Do not add private peers to this list if you don't want them advertised
persistent_peers =[list of sentry nodes]

# Set true to enable the peer-exchange reactor
pex = false
```

Sentry Nodes should edit their config.toml:

```bash
# Comma separated list of peer IDs to keep private (will not be gossiped to other peers)
# Example ID: 3e16af0cead27979e1fc3dac57d03df3c7a77acc@3.87.179.235:26656

private_peer_ids = "node_ids_of_private_peers"
```

###

### How can validators protect themselves from denial-of-service attacks?

Denial-of-service attacks occur when an attacker sends a flood of internet traffic to an IP address to prevent the server at the IP address from connecting to the internet.

An attacker scans the network, tries to learn the IP address of various validator nodes, and disconnects them from communication by flooding them with traffic.

One recommended way to mitigate these risks is for validators to carefully structure their network topology using a sentry node architecture.

Validator nodes are expected to connect only to full nodes they trust because they operate the full nodes themselves or the trust full nodes are run by other validators they know socially. A validator node is typically run in a data center. Most data centers provide direct links to the networks of major cloud providers. The validator can use those links to connect to sentry nodes in the cloud. This mitigation shifts the burden of denial-of-service from the validator's node directly to its sentry nodes, and can require that new sentry nodes are spun up or activated to mitigate attacks on existing ones.

Sentry nodes can be quickly spun up or change their IP addresses. Because the links to the sentry nodes are in private IP space, an internet-based attack cannot disturb them directly. This strategy ensures that validator block proposals and votes have a much higher chance to make it to the rest of the network.

For more sentry node details, see the [Tendermint Documentation](https://docs.tendermint.com/v0.34/tendermint-core/validators.html) or the [Sentry Node Architecture Overview](https://forum.cosmos.network/t/sentry-node-architecture-overview/454) on the forum.
